I'm Marina Evin it's good to have you
with us we begin in the Middle East
where there are growing fears of an
allout war between Israel and the
iran-backed Hezbollah militia in Lebanon
Israel released these images which it
says show Saturday's strike that killed
a senior Hamas Ally in eastern Lebanon
near the country's border with Syria the
Israeli military said he was targeted
for his involvement in Terrorist
activities against Israel isra and the
Lebanese militant group have been
trading near daily border fire since the
October 7th Hamas
attack let's get some analysis now with
makram Raba he is an assistant professor
of history at the American University of
Beirut welcome to
DW so what do you believe what do you
believe would trigger a full out war
between Hezbollah and the Israeli Army
what do you think are the red lines for
each of the
sides well there's a number of red lines
to cross in order for a full scale War
the problem is that everyone is
expecting a kind of the conventional War
whereas in fact what the Israelis are
doing right now are surgically targeting
uh junior level or even senior level
military operatives what will break uh
the camels back I believe is if if
Israel actually goes forward and starts
targeting people who are part of the
political
apparatus of of hisbah and it is not a
coincidence that recently the
Israeli the Israeli government has been
hinting to the fact that even the
Secretary General of of hisbah Hassan
nah might be a potential Target we have
seen that also another thing which might
actually pour gas on the fire is if
Israel goes after Iranian targets like
it did when it targeted the the Iranian
culate in Damascus all of these elements
might lead us to a fullscale war but I
think that one has to always keep in
mind that what is happening right now in
Lebanon isn't itself a fullscale war
however it is still limited and going
forward we we don't know that everyone
who is interested in keeping the war
limited might actually lose control and
we might have a fullscale war on our
hands well Israel and Hezbollah did
fight a war previously back in 2006
if it does come to a full War this time
around how would it be
different well there's a major
difference in in ' 06 Lebanon was still
quote unquote a normal country in the
sense that lebanon's economy was still
excellent compared to the abysmal
situation we are uh experiencing right
now second and more importantly Lebanon
had a lot of allies and friends across
the world and particularly across the
region one has to remember it's not only
about going to war but the internal
front has to be unified as it stands
because of hezbollah's sectarian
messaging and how hisbah has treated its
opponents within leban the Lebanon
Lebanese political system it has called
a it has caused a kind of a secretari
and tension so going forward if any uh
real war breaks out we don't have the
luxury or we don't have the safety net
that was provided by the senura
government at the time nor do we have a
lot of friends in the International
Community who are willing to come to our
Aid and more importantly after the end
of the war are willing willing to pump
money to help in the Reconstruction so
it is not only about going to war but
actually exiting the war which is a real
problem you mentioned these sectarian
divisions and as we mentioned you
yourself are based in
Beirut how are Ordinary People in
Lebanon responding to these Rising
tensions and the Border between
Hezbollah and Israel what do they make
of
it well unfortunately the majority of
the leines don't really experience what
the people of the south on the border
with with Palestine are are actually
experiencing however the real tension is
that I am getting phone calls on a daily
basis from Lebanese experts who are uh
who are planning to come to visit for
the summer vacation and as you are well
aware lebanon's economy hinges primarily
on the contributions of the of the
Lebanese diaspora who are around 10
million around the world so all of these
tensions are actually disrupting the
whole idea of what Lebanon is and this
has been also causing a lot of people to
try to get their families out because at
the end of the day these people who are
visiting Lebanon for a summer vacation
don't want to be stuck here and more
importantly the idea that this time
around there will be no ceasefire and as
you mentioned in report there's always
the idea of a repeat with what is
happening in Gaza which is something of
a kind of a doomsday scenario which
everyone wants to
avoid that was makram rabah from the
American University of Beirut thank you
so much thank you